# Small-Business-Sales

Using data from a local small business, I analyze their strenghts and weaknesses, and make recommendations of how they should proceed in the future based on their sales and revenue.

This business sells a range of items ranging from jewelry and furniture to Christmas items and Skin Care goods. After downloading the CSV of the business's sales data from Kaggle, I loaded it into R Studio and used SQL to data mine. In total, this business sells 19 distinct kinds of products. The business's top 6 performing products were in baskets, arts & sculpture, jewelry, home decor, kitchen, and Christmas. Each of these categories have over 14,000 sales per year, with baskets leading the way with 134,791 total sales. 

Next, I plotted a time series of total sales for the business from 2017 to 2019 in order to visualize the data better. One thing that stuck out to me immediately was the seasonality of the data; the holiday season (November and December) consistently had higher sales than the other months. To dive deeper into this, I looked at the top 10 months with the best sales during this three-year span. Six out of the top ten months occurred during November or December, confirming the trend. Given that one of the best-selling products that this business sells is Christmas items, this makes sense. The holiday months averaged 19,142 sales while non-holiday months averaged just 8,937 sales. In other words, that's a 214% increase from non-holiday to holiday months. Given these statistics, I believe this business should invest even more into its Christmas items in order to maximize its revenue.
